# SE_Project_Teamsigma
This group is all about creating a dynamic project for the course of software engineering
I would like to give you a brief introduction to our project Idea which is "Secure Data Sharing using Blockchain Technology"
The Internet of Things has undergone advancements and one of its applications in cloud computing is data sharing. Despite its appeal, ensuring data security remains a challenge due to the misuse and resulting damages. In this article, we suggest a method called Intermediary Key Conversion to enhance the security of data sharing, in cloud environments. By employing identity-based encryption data owners can securely store their encrypted data in the cloud while an Intermediary Key Conversion mechanism allows authorized users to access that data Because Internet of Things (IoT) devices have resources we utilize edge devices as proxy servers to handle calculations. Moreover, we employ information-centric networking capabilities to efficiently distribute cached content through the proxy thereby improving the quality of service and making use of network capacity. Our system concept is built on technology, which revolutionizes data sharing by enabling control and reducing inefficiencies found in centralized systems. The security analysis and evaluation of our plan illustrate the potential for ensuring data security, confidentiality, and integrity.


**Folder Structure:**

    .
    ├── docs                                 # Documentation files including planning and deliverable docs and team presentations
      ├── meeting_minutes                    # Meeting minutes files for every meeting 
    ├── src                                  # Source code files 
      ├── test                               # Automated tests 
      ├── main                               
        ├── java                             # All main code files for the application
        ├── resources                        # Resources/common files for the project
    ├── reports                              # Reports generated by the project
    └── README.md
    └── GROUP-INFO

**Program Compilation and Run Instructions** 

In this project, we are diligently addressing specific requirements to ensure a seamless installation process, guarding against potential intrusions. Prior to commencing the installation, please observe the following measures:
1) Navigate to the Control Panel on your Windows device within the Program Folder. Delete any components associated with Apache Tomcat by right-clicking and selecting 'Uninstall' for all related directories.
2) Proceed to remove any existing Java Development Kit installations on your device, as we will be utilizing Java SE 8 (version 202 and later).
3) Uninstall any applications in your Programs folder related to MySQL Server.
4) To ensure the complete removal of certain files from the C drive, navigate to the Program Files and perform a permanent deletion (Shift + Delete) of the following items:
Apache Software Foundation
All files associated with MySQL
All files related to Java Development Kits



**Program Run Instructions**
Now, let's proceed to the steps necessary to run this project on your device:
1) Clone the designated GitHub repository using the Command Prompt with the command 'git clone' followed by the path to the GitHub repository containing all project software.(https://github.com/NitinReddyUNT/SE_Project_Teamsigma)
2) We have to install multiple software components to make our project feasible.
3) we need to install jdk-8u144 windows-x64" on our computer from https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/javase8-archive-downloads.html
4) We need to install  my sql version “mysql-essential-5.0.67-win32” from the github program file “SE_Project_Teamsigma”
5) After the installation is complete, access the Control Panel and search for "MySQL Server Instance Config Wizard." Start the installation process and set the new root password as "root" before completing the installation.
6)Install apache tomcat version 8.0.27 with the following link: https://ipt.gbif.org/manual/en/ipt/latest/tomcat-installation-windows.
7) We need to download netbeans ide version “"netbeans-8.1-windows" and Configure the NetBeans IDE installer by opening the file. Choose the 'Customize' option and select Apache Tomcat 8.0.27. Complete the installation process.
8) Download "Webyog_SQLyog_6.5.6_enterprise" and use the key “TaMaBMBolo” and serial : “270c1144ab1730d”.
9) Launch "Webyog_SQLyog_6.5.6_enterprise/SQLyog656Ent" to initiate the installation process, and input the give key and serial
10) After entering the credentials, create a new connection named "New Connection," with the password set as "root." You will be presented with a window labeled "SQLyog Enterprise - MYSQL GUI - [New Connection - root@localhost]."
11) As we have already cloned our github repository for SE_Project_Teamsigma.
12) Open the "Proxy.sql" file in Notepad and copy the included queries.
13) Paste the Queries in SQLyog Enterprise -MySQL GUI and click the execute all queries button on the top menu bar to execute the queries after the execution you will be able to see the test folder and we can view the tables in the database in the proxy folder in SQLyog Enterprise.
14) Now open netbeans ide 8.1 in the system and select the file option /select open project option from the dropdown box and select the file which has been cloned from github.
15) Now we will be able to view all the code files in Netbeans IDE. Next we have to import all the libraries. For that we need to right click on the project main folder named “SE_project_teamsigma” a drop down box will appear and we need to select the properties option.
16) Click on libraries on the options in the properties menu click on add.jar folder option in the menu and navigate to the “SE_Project_Teamsigma/libs” folder in your local computer select all the libraries in that folder and click open.
17) Delete all the previously existing references and only keep the newly added libraries.
18) After completing the process, enter ok and close the window and click the run option in the netbeans library to run the project on your local host.


**User Manual**

The utilization of blockchain technology for data sharing is encapsulated within a web-based application, which serves as a platform for users to securely store and disseminate their data while preserving a comprehensive record of its usage. Here is the user manual describing the entirety of the web based application and different functionalities of each options in the webpage.

1)We can access the website with the below provided link :
https://www.securedatasharingubt.cloud/SE_Project_Teamsigma/index.html
2)First upon opening the link we can see the homepage of the website which contains a mini project description and the team members names including their enrollment id.
3)Let us browse all of the options by following the given steps. Let us move into the Data Owner option and click on ‘Register’ by providing the following details (Username, Password(of 8 characters), Date of Birth, Email id, Gender, Address, Mobile Number) and we need to click ‘Submit’ to register our account with the database.
3)If you try to login now, you will get a error message, because as this is a secured platform every new registration needs to be verified by Trusted Authority.
We can now login as Trusted Authority using the following credentials:
Username : Authority
Password : Authority
4)After we login as Trusted Authority, click on ‘View Owners’ menu and we can see a new registration request has been placed. Now we click on ‘Generate’ to generate a membership key to the new owner so they will be able to login.
5)Logout the Trusted Authority page and go to Data Owner login and provide your credentials and now you will be able to login. Here in the Data Owner page, click on ‘Upload’ files option, select a text file which you want to upload and click on ‘Upload’.
6)Now we will be able to view the metadata, Hash code, Digital signature and other necessary details for uploading the files, click on ‘Upload’, now the file will be moved to cloud service provider and upon clicking the ‘View Files’ option data owner will be able to see all the files uploaded by him.
7)Now logout from Data Owner and move to Data User module and ‘Register’ in the same procedure using steps 3,4,5.
8)Now login as Data User and you will be able to see the ‘Search file’ option, enter the file name which you have uploaded as Data Owner and click on search button, the file should appear now click on the ‘Request’ to request for downloading the file, now the request will be sent to Data Owner. 
9)Now login as Data Owner and click on ‘View Request’ option and owner can click on ‘Send Re-Encrypt Request’ then the request will be sent to the proxy server.
10)Now logout as data user and login as proxy server with the following credentials :
Username : server
Password : server
11)Go to the ‘View Request’ menu in the proxy server and select the file and click on ‘Owner Authenticity with Cloud’ and now the request will be sent to Cloud Service Provider.
12)Now logout of proxy server and login into Cloud Service Provider with the following credentials : Username : csp
Password : csp
13)Now here in Cloud Service Provider, click on ‘View Requests’ option here you will be able to view all the requests and can verify them by clicking on ‘Owner authenticity verify’. This is the re-encryption of our the file in our project by CSP.
14)Now Logout from CSP and login into Proxy Server with the previously provided credentials and open ‘View URLs’ option and click on the URL generated for your file, this will generate a decrypt key and now the file is ready to decrypt by Data User and decryption keys are sent to Trusted Authority(blockchain) and to Data User.
15)Now login as Data User and click on ‘View Response’ tab and search for the file you require. Now copy the ‘Private Key’ and click on ‘Decrypt File’ and enter the private key and click on verify and now we will be able to see the file data and download it.
16) All the files downloaded by Data User can be seen here in ‘Download’ tab.
17) On clicking ‘View Files’ you will be able to view all the files in the cloud with their ciphered data. In CSP we will also be able to see multiple graphs related to multiple functionalities. Their graphs include Encryption time graph, Re_encryption time graph, Decryption time graph, All download graph.
